- [Instructor] What is a message queue?
A message queue is a collection of messages
that are grouped on a server or a MOM.
We generally call these MQ servers.
The message queues retain the message
until a consumer is available to retrieve them.
Message queues retrieved are pulled
in the order they are received.
We call this FIFO, or first-in-first-out order.
Message queues can have multiple consumers
but, and this is important to remember,
for a message on a queue, it can only have one consumer.
This guarantees that the message is processed only one time.
This is why we call queues a point-to-point
model domain design.
Topics on the other hand, can have multiple consumers,
who have all subscribed to the same topic.
Order delivery is not the same as queues
and so there is no guarantee of order delivery.
Similarly, a message on a topic could,
and most likely will be processed multiple times
and since multiple consumers are subscribed to the topic.
It's important to remember
that consumers subscribed to a topic
on an MQ server must be active
when the message is published to the topic,
in order to access it,
unless the subscription is a durable subscription.
This is why we call this domain design pub/sub.
With all that said,
let's define our course project a bit more.
What we'll be creating is an online bookstore.
Our books are stored in a warehouse
and the bookstore will place the orders to the warehouse
for one or more books.
The MOM for this project will be an Apache ActiveMQ.
An ActiveMQ instance will sit between our bookstore app
and the warehouse app.
Both apps will act as consumers
and publishers to either a queue or a topic.
Our message queue on the ActiveMQ instance
will be used for strictly publishing book order requests
for a particular book.
The warehouse app will be our consumer reading messages
off the message queue in FIFO order processing.
Once a book order request is processed,
the warehouse app will publish to a book order process queue
of those book orders as to whether they are completed,
as well as published
to a topic alerting changes to inventory.
This topic will be called book inventory topic
and will have a durable subscription to this topic,
where after consuming will update possibly
a local database inventory table.